2011 - A Year In Review
#######################
:date: 2011-12-31 15:02
:author: Tim Heckman
:copyright: 2011
:license: CC BY-SA
:category: personal
:tags: personal
:tags: 2011, end of year review, new years
:slug: 2011-a-year-in-review

I'm going to step outside the bounds of my usual style of posts (not
that I've had too many) to give a, what I hope to be, small personal
review of 2011.  This is going to be a bit more of an unorganized mind
dump so don't expect anything special out of it.  :)

Another year has blown by quicker than I really had expected or even
wanted.  In the past year I've had my first year at `Linode`_, I had my
new girlfriend move in with me, and I've gone through a few fights with
my car (seems I need to buy her things to make her happy).  In the same
token I've had relationships fall apart,  and had members of my family,
who were the reason I am the person I am today, pass away suddenly.

Do I wish some things would have gone differently this year?  Yes.
 There are plenty of things that I truly wish had gone differently as I
sit here and write this post.  I've had a few friends just disappear,
and I've lost a few family members.  Would I change it?  Now that's a
bit more of a difficult question...I really don't know.

I've started to notice that the seconds, minutes, days, weeks, and even
the years are starting to slip by faster and faster.  Growing up I can
remember my grandmother telling me that life is short and you need to
live like every day may be your last.  You never know what can happen
the next day, or even two weeks from now.  Maybe I didn't want to
believe that life was short back then as it always seemed like I had all
the time in the world.  Now, nearly 13 years or so later, I can only
really watch as time slips away.

Back in November 2010 I was fed up with my then job as a Geek Squad
Agent.  It wasn't so much the work, but rather the treatment by
management (above my direct senior and supervisor).  I made the decision
to send a Résumé over to Linode primarily to make myself feel better.
 Beyond what I had expected I had an interview (two actually) and was
offered a job.  The job offer was the best thing to happen to me.

The girlfriend and I had been friends for quite some time before we
decided to get together.  We actually met through a message board for
Geek Squad employees (go figure).  She came out to visit back in April
as a friend, and left as more than one.  She moved in back in June.  I
can't believe that was over 6 months ago.

This will probably be the longest section of this review.  This year I
lost my grandfather to a bout of cancer. It was definitely one of the
roughest things I've gone through in awhile.

When my father died, my grandfather, Frank Spracklin (Pappy/Pap as all
the grandkids called him), stepped in without even a second thought.
 Even while he was technically my step-grandfather, he treated me as if
I was his own grandson.  Being a member of the Navy's Underwater
Demolition Team (today they are called the SEALs) back in the Korean
War, he swore like a sailor.  He did try to keep it classy and
appropriate for the conversation, however it didn't work.  He never made
it past the sixth grade due to dyslexia, but he was one of the smartest
individuals you'd meet.  His dyslexia left for some very
funny phonetically spelled grocery lists.  Having been through some life
changing events back in Korea, he didn't let them affect how kind
hearted he was.

I would say my mom, and almost all of her siblings, consider him their
father.  He may not biologically be it, but when my grandmother needed
help raising them he was there.  He taught them lessons in life, made
sure he set them on the right path to be good people (even if they did
break the law often), and worked every single day to provide them with
the best life possible.  He even risked his life to teach my mom stick.

Growing up he was integral in development of the person I am today.  He
helped me learn to ride a bike and fix it when I would hit a nail, gave
me advice on a myriad of topics in life such as the secrets of selective
hearing, he also would let me know when I had done something wrong with
a well-timed "I ought to kick you in the ass".  While some may feel the
latter is not a constructive way to raise someone, he never raised his
voice or even tried to execute the swift kick.  The methods by which he
taught me lessons were with stern yet calm conversations.

So back in late August/early September he was diagnosed with late stage
cancer of the esophagus.  Being the stubborn guy he was he didn't get
checked when he was having trouble swallowing.  By the time my
grandmother found out it was too late.  The cancer had spread to a point
where there was nothing anyone could do.  So on September 13, fifteen
years to the day after my father lost his short fight with late stage
cancer, Pap lost his.  And really, I don't think it could have gone any
better.  He wasn't in pain, and was still there to the end cracking
jokes and telling my grandmother that she was standing in the way of the
television.  We recently took his ashes to the place where he went deer
hunting and spread them under the tree he's sat under for probably more
than 15-20 years.

I recently celebrated my one year anniversary of working for Linode.
 I'm having one of the best experiences I can imagine with a group
of...interesting individuals.  :)  Everyone at the company seems to have
the goal shared by our CEO, to provide a service that we would want to
use.  And plenty of us did use Linode before we worked here.  As I
mentioned previously this is the best decision I've ever made.

The girlfriend and I are going great.  With any relationship we have our
small arguments, but we push them aside afterwards and just continue
about our day without being upset with each other.  Couldn't really ask
for much more.

So overall, 2011 has been a pretty okay year.  The good things balance
out the bad.  Starting within the next week or so I'll be changing my
eating habits and going on the Atkins diet.  Sitting at a desk has made
it easier to put back on some of the weight I lost, so I'll be slimming
down a bit more.  Here's hoping that 2012 is an even better year!

How was 2011 for you?

.. _Linode: http://www.linode.com/?r=78a747e2c08ffb6618e260c3c62f536687b9159c
